#summary OSGi experiences
#sidebar TableOfContents

= Summary =

At the moment, this is a record of experiences in adding OSGi support. Expect
it to be somewhat chaotic. Currently, the code is in /branches/osgi-project.

At some point in the future, this will either go away (and so will this page)
because we've given it up as a bad job or an impossible task, or it will
be restructured and rewritten to help folks understand how the (successful)
OSGi integration works, and where the problems are.

= Initial Steps =

Way back at the start of the project, we tried to integrate felix. Didn't
seem to work (partly due to versioning issues, which remain a known problem).

= Second Attempt =

Following interactions with an OSGi guru, and a renewed interest in using the
facilities of OSGi for modularization and such, we undertook a new effort.

== First Phase ==

 * create a branch, so that we can play in it (/branches/osgi-project)
 * discover BNDTools, which appears to be extremely useful
 * software base:
  * maven 2 
  * Eclipse 3.7
  * subversive
  * m2eclipse
  * BNDTools 1.0.0
 * add the repo in svn repo exploring (installs svn connector)
 * import existing maven projects from the branch
  * leave out the book, because it causes errors we don't care about right now
  * it gets you to install an additional thing for m2eclipse archiving
  * then i had to fix all the .project and .classpath files because of m2e updates that changed builder and nature
  * it doesn't seem to work to give a container (pom) project bndtools nature?
   * I _think_ that's the problem I first encountered
   * or it might have to do with bndtools creating a cnf in the workspace, when it has to be a sibling of the projects
   * grrrr